[Music]
fifteen tips to help you recognize
quality items shopping is a great thing
to do it makes you feel rewarded after a
difficult working week of course when we
buy a piece of clothing we want to get a
quality item unfortunately it often
happens that new clothes shrink or get
torn even after the first wash
Brightside will tell you about 15 tips
that will help you detect a poor quality
item right on the spot learn not to
waste your money 15 check the quality of
cotton by squeezing it when buying
clothes made of cotton do this simple
but very illustrative test grab some
fabric it squeeze it as tightly as you
can in your fist for a few seconds then
check if the fabric looks like a
crumpled piece of paper if it does don't
buy it it means that it has been treated
with a special agent to keep its shape
so after you wash this piece of clothing
for the first time it will look like a
rug you don't want to wear a rug for u14
pull the fabric up to bright light
as you may know the thicker the material
is the higher the quality to check the
thickness hold the fabric up to a bright
light if you don't see much through it
you're safe to buy it
of course this test doesn't work with
jeans for example it's only good for
some light fabrics like silk 13 pull the
seams to see the gaps quality items have
very dense stitches and thick seams Oh
pull tests can help you understand if
you're holding a piece of junk in your
hands or if you have to paperwork right
now feeling happy that you found it so
try pulling stitch pieces apart don't
pull too hard you don't want to destroy
the clothes right
if the seam shows gap don't buy the item
it's not going to live long 12 avoid
open zippers make sure you buy clothes
and accessories with metal zippers
covered with a strap they are the most
reliable and long lasting open plastic
zippers often break very fast and
they're a sign of poor quality in almost
any item 11 check the hem hands and
skirts should have a hem of up to two
inches blouses and shirts can do with a
smaller one all about one inch
if there is no hem at all or it's simply
stitched we do not recommend buying this
item the thing is as soon as you start
using the fabric it will stretch so the
hem will start losing its shape all the
way along the hem line good hems look
like a small piece of fabric with sewn
around the hem
ten give the fabric a tug a quality item
will always keep its shape take a
stretchy part of a dress or a shirt tug
on it and then let it go if the fabric
retains its shape you can buy it if not
look for something better
9 make sure the zipper matches in length
zippers on dresses skirts or any other
kinds of clothing should be equal in
length even and match in color
8 well cut of course some brands that
are not very expensive try to save money
by all means sometimes they even try to
use as little fabric as possible you may
notice that the sleeves are too short or
the item itself is too tight if you
notice symptoms like this
don't jump to the conclusion that you
shouldn't have skipped your gym it's
possible that the manufacturer just
saved money and didn't use enough fabric
you can easily solve this problem by
always trying on all clothes you want to
buy yes you will spend a little more
time but still significantly less than
you will if you have to go back to the
store to get a refund 7 pay attention to
the label
natural fabrics such as cotton silk and
wool are strong and more durable than
synthetics however 100% cotton can
quickly shrink after washing that's why
it's a good idea to choose clothes with
an addition of artificial fabrics such
as polyester nylon viscose and others
but make sure that 80% of the item is
made of natural fiber you will be able
to wear this clothing over and over
again for a long time and be careful
with viscose if there is too much of it
spider will quickly stretch and fall
apart 6 make sure the seams and threads
match examine the fabric pattern and
thread colors if the pattern doesn't
match and stitches are made with threads
of different colors it is a clear sign
that this item was made in a hurry
quantity was probably a priority here
not quality 5 check buttons and
buttonholes when manufacturers make a
fake or a low quality item they often
don't pay attention to the little
details this is why you should always
carefully examine buttons and
buttonholes before buying an item make
sure that buttons are secured and no
threads stick out the hole should be
neatly over locked and evenly cut
through
if the buttonholes are reinforced with a
special thread they'll last much longer
and they won't be ripped or in any way
distort it the bottom line is check if
the holes look sloppy and more
importantly try buttoning the item up it
is physically difficult to do it's a
sign of good quality yes your fingers
will hurt but at least you can be sure
that you bought something good another
thing that has to do with buttons is if
the item comes with spare ones if it
does it means that the manufacturer
hopes that you will wear the clothes for
a long time and probably will need some
minor fixes so they provide you with
some spare buttons so you don't have to
look for them yourself but
care and attention signal that you've
come across a quality item for check if
it has a yoke good shirts and blouses
must have a shoulder yoke it makes the
top look neat on you cheap items of
clothing don't have a yoke so they don't
just look bad but are also uncomfortable
to wear and the worst thing is that it
is especially visible from the back so
you'll wear something and have no idea
that it looks bad 3 look at the coloring
of the folds if the coloring on the
handles straps or fastenings looks faded
or leaves marks on the folds that is a
clear sign of a low quality item the
same goes for situations when one part
of the item looks lighter or darker than
the rest this kind of coloring will
gradually fade after several washes look
for something that doesn't have such
flaws - a center back seam when you buy
a jacket or a coat pay extra attention
to the center back seam the thing is the
back probably doesn't look completely
flat so if you want it to look beautiful
there must be a quality vaccine you see
manufacturers know that people don't
really look at the back of clothes when
buying them so they try to save money
and not cut any seams one patterns match
up well this is something that very few
people notice when buying clothes many
fabrics have patterns right even a very
quick look at them can tell you a lot
about how much effort has been put into
producing the item for example if the
pattern on the pocket doesn't seem to
match the pattern on the rest of the
item it means that the production was
sloppy and they try to save money on the
material and the worst thing is that
after you notice that the patterns don't
match you won't be able to unsee it it
will stand out all the time so don't
risk buying such clothes you don't want
to be annoyed by this imperfection all
the time
do you know any other useful tips on how
to recognize quality items if you do
share them in the comments section below
and now it's time for a bonus how to
select the perfect clothes for your body
shape an apple-shaped body wear clothes
that draw attention away from your
midsection and waist v-neck empire waist
dresses and tops wrap dresses and a line
dresses will do wonders for you choose
tops that cover the entire belly area
and extend just below your hips avoid
double-breasted jackets bulky tops and
clingy silhouettes go for layered tops
ruched tops and tunics avoid skinny
jeans and straight leg pants if you are
top-heavy flared or bootcut pants with
back pockets are the right choice for
you
instead of wearing a belt around the
waist wear it just below your bust
this will create curves and minimize
your waist a pear-shaped body highlight
your shoulders to balance the shape of
your figure for this you can use scarves
pashminas and colorful necklaces choose
patterns and embellish tops and dresses
make your shoulders look broader with a
bateau neckline cap and puff sleeves
avoid tight pants capri pants short
skirts and pencil skirts choose tailored
flared pants and a line skirts instead
wear dark solid colors for your bottom
half and lighter brightly colored tops
a rectangular body shape if you don't
have natural curves you can use clothes
and accessories to create them wear a
belt at the narrowest part of your waist
to accentuate it
choose empire waist and wrap dresses
wear tops that end at the midsection of
the hips enhance your shoulders in
bustline with ruffled or pleated tops
and choose accessories that add volume
to your upper part choose underwear that
provides good breast support and makes
your waist more defined peplum jackets
tops dresses and skirts will create the
illusion of an hourglass shape an
hourglass shape highlight your curves
for this it's essential to choose
clothes that draw attention to your
waist avoid baggy clothing remember that
drawing focus to your narrow waist is
the best way to highlight your hips and
bust
we're undergarments that fit correctly
if your bust is large be sure to use the
right kind of bra
avoid using padded cups or unstructured
bras that make her cleavage look droopy
like this video and send it to your
friends and of course don't forget to
join us on the bright side of life